# CS330
SNHU CS-330: Computational Graphics and Visualization

How do I approach designing software? What new design skills has your work on the project helped you to craft? What design process did you follow for your project work? How could tactics from your design approach be applied in future work?

I knew zero information about OpenGL before taking this class, so it definitly has been a challenging 8 weeks. At first, I followed the module tutorials and worked around that design. Though, as the weeks became more complicated, I found that I couldn't keep that approach. I researched a lot of ways to complete certain tasks, such as moving the camera faster/slower and adding lighting. Also, while designing my 3D scene, I utilized a lot of visual blueprinting. So, I drew out most of my objects on a grid. Blueprinting allowed me to accurately calculate all the objects' vertices. If needed, I would use this tactic again because it saved me a lot of time and complication. Then, for each object, I created seperate files for their vertices. Having seperate file allowed me to be more organized and figure out what needed to be built. Though, it added more files to my project, this design approach let me quickly navigate to an object's vertices if anything needed to be changed.

How do I approach developing programs? What new development strategies did you use while working on your 3D scene? How did iteration factor into your development? How has your approach to developing code evolved throughout the milestones, which led you to the project’s completion?

As stated, at first I followed the tutorials' development approach throughout the modules. This was a good approach at first, but during the lighting module, I found that it was very difficult to add lighting to it. During the lighting module, I accessed the OpenGL Sample that was given to us and found that it was a lot easier to follow and develop with. So, I editted it and used its design approach to develope my final 3D scene. Then, as I was developing, I ran the program after every significant code change that I made. With graphics development, it is important to know that objects are rendering appropriately and the program runs smoothly. Though, rendering most of the objects was pretty easy, as it was just reusing the same code, but changing the VBO and VAO names and vertices.

How can computer science help me in reaching my goals? How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future educational pathway? How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future professional pathway?

Computer science can help me reach my goals by giving me the knowledge to succeed in my desired carreer path. Though, at this time, it is difficult to figure out where exactly I might need this knowledge in future endeavors. I think that this course has taught me a lot about problem solving, research, and how to follow instruction. All of these skills are very important in having a CS career. On the other hand, working for a gaming company has always been a huge career goal for me, so this course may impact my future more than I currently know. 
